---
layout: member
category: senior
title: Tim Dyrby
image: tim.png
role: Professor
permalink: 'team/tim'
email: timd@drcmr.dk
social:
    twitter: 
    linkedin: https://dk.linkedin.com/in/tim-dyrby-2220582
    google-scholar: https://scholar.google.dk/citations?user=k3f9h9YAAAAJ&hl=da
    github: 
    website:
    orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3361-9734
    research-gate: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Tim-Dyrby
education:
 - Elektroniktekniker, Frederiksberg Tekniske Skole, DK
 - BSc.E.E Dep. of Electronic, Engineering College of Copenhagen, DK
 - MSc DTU informatics, Technical University Denmark (DTU), DK
 - PhD DTU informatics, Technical University Denmark (DTU), DK

---

I am a professor in biomedical imaging and analysis at the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) and Copenhagen University Hospital Amager and Hvidovre (RegionH), and coordinating Professor of the Technical Universty Hospitals of Greater Copenhagen (TUH). I have been a visiting professor at EPFL. I received my BSc in Electronics and an MSc in Informatics, followed by a PhD in MRI Physics from DTU with a focus on diffusion MRI. My passion is understanding and mapping the structure-function relationship of the nervous system, particularly how the morphology of neurons, axons, and myelin modulates saltatory conduction velocities along axons. This, in turn, influences signal latencies in the brain connectome and can be affected by diseases that alter this delicate balance.

To investigate, map and validate these structure-function correlations, my team and I utilizes animal models, translating our findings into clinical applications. We apply viral optogenetic brain stimulation and electrophysiological recordings to measure signal latencies, which are combined with structural imaging. However, no single imaging technology can create a holistic view of the structure-function relationship. Therefore, my team constantly pushes the boundaries by combining novel 3D imaging technologies to map brain matter across anatomical length scales, from the topology of brain networks down to axon fascicles and single neuron morphology.

